Welcome to this module of my AWS Developer course, An Introduction to Lambda.
My name is Fernando Medina Corey,
and in this module, we'll learn about integrating
Lambda with other AWS services.
In this module, we'll start by reviewing some of the resources
that we'll need to set up for this project.
Specifically, we'll look at getting the Amazon Simple Email
Service set up and verifying emails that we'll be sending
email with and receiving email to.
Once we finish this process,
we'll be able to set up the Amazon Simple Storage Service, or S3,
and create a bucket inside of it to store some template files that
we'll use to send out email templates. From there, we'll review the
skeleton code in the Cuckoo folder that we'll be using for this
particular demo.
We'll make sure it's up to date with the information we're putting in
S3 and the emails that we're using in the Simple Email Service. From
there, we'll look at a few other resources that we'll be relying on
inside of this demo, like Jinja2 and boto3, and then we'll move on to
deploying our functions.
We'll look at how to create a new function package using the
setup.sh script for this particular demo, and then we'll set up a
scheduled event configuration using cron.
Except in this demo,
all of these activities will happen through the AWS CLI rather than the AWS
Console, so we'll be learning an entirely new set of skills.
So let's get started.
The Simple Email Service, or Amazon SES, is an AWS
application service that makes it easier to integrate email
functionality in your application.
SES both allows you to accept inbound mail and build in
ways to manage the incoming mail,
as well as sending outgoing mail to email addresses not managed by AWS.
So let's take a look at a few of the core benefits of using SES.
The first primary benefit of using a managed email service
like SES is that it has a variety of processes in place to
ensure high deliverability.
This means that AWS takes care to keep the quality of its outgoing mail high so
that it doesn't get marked as spam by other email providers.
You also have access to sending statistics.
This means that you can actually see key metrics like deliverability,
bounces, and complaints.
You can also control the emails that you receive and how
they're processed after you receive them.
For example,
by allowing or blocking emails from an IP range or by a recipient address.
With this level of control and transparency to your emails,
you can also configure monitoring to notify you of problems
like spam complaints or low deliverability.
This can help you ensure high quality and maximum viewership for your emails.
So now let's take a look at another AWS service we'll be working
with, AWS S3. S3, or the Simple Storage Service, was one of the first
products that AWS released back in 2006.
The service allows you to store objects on AWS infrastructure.
These objects can be text, audio, video, code, and many other types of files,
and each of these objects is stored in something called a bucket.
Now, buckets can hold multiple objects,
and each of these objects have a key name that you can use to
reference them inside of those buckets.
Now,
each of these buckets have a global namespace, and what I mean by this is that
if you wanted to make a bucket called my bucket and I wanted to make a bucket
called my bucket, we can't both have our way.
These buckets must be unique across AWS accounts and regions
throughout the world, and you can never duplicate the name of a
bucket. S3 also has a concept of folder prefixes.
Now,
folders aren't strictly folders in the sense you'd think of them
as containing objects themselves. Instead,
in S3, every object has a key, and in order to implement
something looking and feeling like a folder,
you would use prefixes on the object's name that then end with a slash,
and that allows you to group objects into what appear to be folders,
but are actually just prefixes on the object name.
Now, we'll be using S3 to keep a hold of some the email templates that we
don't want to put in with our Lambda function package.
So what are some of the benefits of using S3? The first is scalability.
When you're working with S3, AWS will scale up the compute capacity
required to serve your files inside of S3 for you.
And this can go pretty far before you need to implement things like
caching or other systems for distributing your files. S3 will also
integrate very easily with a variety of AWS services. You can use Lambda
to pull files from S3 and store them in S3 using the AWS SDKs, and
anywhere you could run an AWS SDK,
you could interact with S3. There's also direct integrations
with many services for data analytics,
data processing, and other purposes like that.
Another benefit is that S3 is pretty simple to get
started with. You can put all of your objects into it
immediately after creating a bucket,
and then you could go get them using the Adobe AWS SDK's Command Line
Interface or the AWS Console, and you can set this up to work in a
lot of your applications fairly easily.
Another benefit is availability. Because S3 is managed by AWS,
not only does it scale automatically to support your capacity,
but behind the scenes,
AWS is making sure that your files will be available
at the highest amount possible.
Now, there's plenty of other benefits to S3, so take a closer look at
the service as you build your own applications.
Next,
let's take a look at our skeleton code, Cuckoo. Cuckoo will help us
by having reminder types in HTML templates that can be modified by
Jinja2, which is a Python library, for each purpose that we might
have. We'll also manage sending different types of messages out at
different times,
depending on which scheduled event we're going to use to trigger it.
Additionally,
for each of these events, it'll use a different email template
that will load from S3 in order to populate relevant
information based on the event context.
This will give us a different template to remind our employees to
come to work versus sending a template reminder to our clients to
remind them to come pick up their pets.
It'll also manage different groups of folks that we
want to send to, in this case, employees and clients.
Now, there's a few other resource is that we'll be using. We'll be looking
at the Python SDK boto3 and use that in our Python code.
We'll also be using specific HTML templates using
Jinja2, which is a Python templating tool.
So, as one final reminder, what's our project actually going to do?
It's going to get triggered at a specific time.
It'll then use the logic inside of Cuckoo to determine if it
should send a morning alert over to our employees to remind them
to come to work, or if it's midday,
it might tell them to do a few specific tasks,
reminding them to do things like feeding the rabbits or
cleaning out the cat litter boxes.
And then in the afternoon,
it's going to send an email reminder to our clients to remind them to
come pick up their pets from our day care center.
So with this refresher out of the way, in the next video, let's look at what we'll do in the demo.